ST.MATHEWS SESENIA SCHOOL
P.O BOX 224-00502
KAREN
TE L:0724344515
E-MAILzstmathewssesenia@yahoo.com
PROFILE:
ST. MATHEWS SESENIA SCHOOL was started in the year 2007 by its vision bearers Peter and Esther who
had been and are still working with Cowalenga C.B.0 affiliated with Plan international through which the
children of Cowalenga community offered children services such as payment of school fees, training the
community on child rights, home based care, drug abuse and peer education among others. in the year
2007, the Government of Kenya announced free primary and Secondary Education and which free
education was never to be because the government schools could not accommodate all the children in
their institutions and this saw a massive dropout of the secondary going children that depended on Plan
following its withdrawal to fund in order to support the government initiative. When Peter and Esther
were going round the community, they realized the problem of school dropouts and thought that it was
important to have an immediate intervention programme to address the same hence the founding of
ST. MATHEWS SESENIA SCHOOL
MISSION:
To identify and assist all orphaned and vulnerable children out of school due to lack of school fees
access higher education through establishment of institutions of higher learning and enable them realize
their full potential.
VISION:
To try and narrow the gap between the rich and the poor through establishment of higher institutions
of learning, middle and higher levels accessible to the poor and vulnerable children at affordable rate to
enable each and everyone achieve his/her dreams in life.
OB] ECTIVES:
i) To identify all orphaned and vulnerable secondary going children who dropped out due to school fees
l and assist them continue with their education for them to realize their dreams.
ii) To give hope to those who had lost hope for their future. l
iii) To narrow the gap between the rich and the poor
-- 

iv) To establish a society full of hope where children are able to realize their full potential.
v) To establish middle and higher level institutions of learning which could accommodate those children
from poor families in order for them to complete their education.
vi) To liaise with well wlshers, donors and other like minded institutions to assist St. Mathews Sesenia
School realize its vision.
BRIEF HISTORY:
St. Mathews was founded in the year 2007 by its vision bearers Peter and Esther. The school started
with two orphaned children Josephine and Fredrick 0dhiambo.The reason for starting the school was to
try and assist those children from poor families who had dropped out of the school due to termination
of payment of school fees by Plan International which was by then the rnain funder in the community.
The school started in the month of February 2007.The school had three teachers with no secretary. The
term ended with three students and during second term the School added 4 more students and closed
the term with 7 students. During third term the school got other ﬁve students joining and this brought
the total population to 12 students.
Since inception St. Mathews Sesenia School has managed to:
0 Assist 150 children to access secondary school Education.
0 Assist 50 students to sit for their KCSE national Examination out of which 35 have been able to
join colleges and some are now working.
0 Assist 20 orphaned and 40 vulnerable children access secondary education.
0 Help nature the talents of many children through various sport activities such as football,
valleyball and athletics.
0 Employ ten members of staff, 7 teachers, a secretary a watchman and a messenger.
FUTURE PLANS:
0 Purchase land for the school.
0 Put all students on boarding program in order to accommodate more needy and vulnerable
cases
0 Establish a middle level college in the next two years and a school university in the next ten
years to enable all students achieve their long life dreams


